Sort of things you talked about
before. Then maybe just to so
that set the scene a little bit.
Ohh yeah, I mean we we we we
talked about these automated
gates that would work on
biometrics kind of I don't know
five years ago pre COVID could
when they were introducing it
into Dubai Airport there was a
proof of concept going on so we
talked about them as talked
about that with them quite a lot
we also talked about kind of
automated analysis of
documentation that they were
getting in beforehand to be able
to help determine whether
somebody was you kind of legally
or illegally or they were
faking.
Certain documentations we talked
about real time translation, as
Alan has said, but again what
the technology wasn't quite
there to do that we talked about
pre interviewing people or the
video calls which would have
automatic and real time language
translation. This is before
teams was introduced.
And so many of the things I
think we kind of talked about of
kind of being realised now or
haven't quite been realised. I'm
not sure what happened at the
Dubai trial, but the technology
has moved on now to the extent
that many of the things might
actually be productised and
available. I think the
difference or the problem we
have is that none of it's been
used in a context of this
importance. So real time
translation, if teams got it
wrong, it doesn't matter so
much.
If it's in a a setting like
this, then it's more
problematic, so I think we'd
have to look at the.
If efficacy of a lot of the
technology to the level that we
want there on.
Ohh.
Angel.
But sorry, that was quick.
And when was it? When I was at
HP. So this is sort of five
years ago. This was when HP
owned a autonomy, which is now
not allowed to be referred to as
autonomy. It's now idle.
Hmm.
Um, you know, it was doing
pretty some prep.
Tease sophisticated real time.
And transcription. So for
example on the BBC.
When the subtitles coming up in
real time, that's all done. That
was all done by.
And idol and also we used it
for.
And real time imagery and video
analysis. So it would do like
scene capture and you could go
back to what you were saying,
Chris, about.
Yeah, I've just got this vision
of a couple of border guards
saying ohh there's a wrong and
like back in the 50s again when
when someone but they you can
spot changes in people's gait in
terms of how they walk.
And and could would would look
at it at spotting patterns of
where people were starting to
just congregate unnaturally so
that I know that's a technology
solution. You know,
out-of-the-box. And like you
say, technology has moved on and
move continues to move on, but
that's something we we used
successfully in the past.
Um.
More in in the sort of national
security side rather than
Homeland Security.
Um, but yeah, there's just
building on what what Lee was
saying about the transcriptions
side.
Gate analysis is good. You can
do gender and gender from gear
to analysis. Quite often you get
what you used to get people
Ohh.
coming in for different.
While with, with, with the
autonomy at the time we were
using it to real index in real
time and ISIS propaganda videos,
so you'd have the, the, the, the
video and it will be going
through it, capturing there's a
face, it will be say, you know
there's a there's a young Arabic
male, there's a group, it's in a
desert scene. It was. So we're
doing a scene classifications it
could identify.
Weapons that could identify
vehicles could identify flags,
and it could lift the text off
the flags cause uh um, it would
lift the text off flags. There
would be a WhatsApp symbol. It
would capture the phone number
and it would capture all of that
in real time, and then index the
whole thing because historically
it used to be a manual process
and then you could then when it
was finished, just search for
specific things show, show me
all the scenes where there's a
vehicle or a weapon or whatever.
There is pretty pretty, pretty
neat even I have to say.
Wow. So but I think in a lot of
cases here with with the
immigration you you it's made
that there's things in the
airport but there's probably the
biggest value is we've got a lot
of standard documents coming
through and it's being able to
analyse those documents and look
for.
You know things that are. So if
you if you have all the
decisions that have been made by
existing officials when they're
reviewing cases and you see what
the outcome is and then you you,
you put that through some sort
of AI or machine learning or
something, surely you could
begin to spot.
You know, like a digital twin
version of the person who's
doing the assessment so well the
the digital person is actually,
no, that looks dodgy to help you
just focus more on each case and
then eventually, once you got to
your, you're happy that it's
it's reaching it to the right
level. You could automate that
to a degree. There are risks
obviously, but.
Hmm.
Yeah, I mean.
Sorry, I was just say cause I
over the years we've had
conversations in the Home Office
is deliberately steered away
from automated decision making.
But what we have been successful
in was assisted decision making.
So again, when looking at asylum
cases which are really complex,
providing the examiner with the
right prompts to assess the case
and then drafting the either
rejection or acceptance letter
out the back of it because a lot
of the appeals are overturned.
And technicalities. And that's
because caseworkers, you suggest
free form the responses and so
lawyer and the lawyer worth
their salt would find some gaps.
So we automated that, but it it
may be lasted a couple of couple
of years and they went off and
did their own.
Thing I think that's cause it
was a bespoke technology, but
that doesn't mean that the
problem hasn't hasn't gone away.
But I I think it depends based
on your conversations where
there's a real appetite for
change and automated decision
making.
Because, bluntly, the civil
servants are employed there. If
you automate their roles,
they've gotta go somewhere,
right?
Yep.
And that's that's always been
the argument.
I've got lots of hands up here,
so to let's try with the. I
But if.
can't see you as first though,
so I'll win there we go.
Owen always first.
I was just going to build on
media's point right so gently
VAI is the big thing now, right?
So using Gentry for I to give
each immigration officer their
own body which will help them
accelerate, you know and.
Yeah, like an expert virtual
assistant building allowance
point. You know where you train
the LM? The large language model
on policies, procedures,
previous use cases, decisions
caught, you know, context,
whatever you want, right?
Doesn't matter. And then each
immigration officer would have a
buddy and then the the outcome
would be accelerated. Case
reviews. Right on cases. Yeah.
Um, so we we've got a method,
you know which we've our in our
in our generative are offering
the best three things yeah so
one conduct workshops to help
identify use cases. So we can
offer that we could do a
generative AI workshop for you
know for the Home Office and say
hey let's work on this
immigration problem and we have
to pick you know.
Where we want to do it right?
I yeah. The gate or, you know,
use cases or asylum or whatever
the case may be, you know,
whatever the domain may be. And
the second thing is to take the
prioritised use cases and
concept them so that you know,
we can figure out how to make it
stick. And the third one is to
help them implement. But, you
know, we could start with the
first just use case
identification and the value of
delivering the use case. Right.
What is the outcome? What is the
increased increased productivity
efficiency as a result of
delivering that use case?
It's really helpful any any
comments on that point from
album before we move on to
another?
Or just just one and I sort of
put it in the chat like
caseworking is is super
efficient. So we've done a huge
amount over the years to
basically get all of the later
ready for a case worker to make
a decision. It used to take ages
because they had to wade through
different bits of information.
It doesn't follow a linear
process, but literally now on a
case worker makes a decision,
but they make a couple 100
decisions a day in the overseas
business mainly for kind of
visit or sort of.
Study study visas. So it's I
think it's super super
efficient. I guess what we need
to do is work out where we wanna
bike tackle it. So when you look
at the end to end chain of.
Um, you know, applying for a
visa.
All the way through to leaving
the country. Where are those
points of intervention? Cause
it's a it's a massively complex
non linear process, but I don't
I know we've mentioned
caseworking a few times. I don't
think that's where the Home
Yeah.
Office would see their problems
are.
That's exactly the point I was
gonna raise, Alan. It feels to
me from this conversation that
is not as much at the, quote,
unquote, point of intervention.
I the guy comes and and there's
a conversation about the case.
He it's more about what can we
do in the pre and potentially in
the post.
And how we can use artificial
intelligence in that sense, so
generative I always was given an
example. For instance, during
the process of evaluating that
know asylum requests or whatever
a study visa or whatever. But
also how can we use Ghai 3 for
instance, to provide better
information, easier information
for people to apply or to review
some of the documentation that
needs to be prepared.
So that there is also a an
earlier view.
Right from an on office
perspective or those potential
applicants. So there's a I think
if you look at it, user journey
right of the various cases kind
of look at the pre and the post,
I think it's where the most
value can actually be added. And
also there's less risk of bias.
Cause I was following very
attentively your your preamble
Chris. And although those are
dynamics that do happen.
Right. I think there's a huge
risk in terms of introducing
bias of reinforcing bias in the
intervention time, right?
Whereas if we focus our
attention on the pre and the
post exactly album, I just saw
your comment exactly those type
of things, checking forms, all
of these things that can
Hmm.
actually save a huge amount of
time.
And and actually have an
effective impact.
For the for the caseworkers and
the Home Office in general.
So you say pre just so I
understand is it look but so
you'd submit it in and then
they'll do some initial
validation before it then goes
to someone to.
To do a proper assessment is
that what you're saying? Ohh
Yes, yes and yes. And there
might be cases where people need
yeah.
to pre submit information.
Right for the cases, I mean, I
remember I was when I when I
moved to Canada right, there was
a lot of documentation that I
had to exchange before I even
presented myself for the
airport. For instance, right.
So all all of these sort of
things.
Is the the pre mobile and the
post is probably the I will call
it the exit or the follow up to
a particular event that has
happened during the evaluation
of the case.
In the UK.
All of the applications these
days you send the documentation
at the same time and it's all
pretty much moving to electronic
format it for some applications.
The applicants then have to go
to enrol.
Ah, you need to get your facial
recognition and identification
taken in a in an enrollment
centre which are primarily run
by.
Ohh Soprasteria on behalf of the
Home Office.
Yeah, and that's a classic area
where a I got plaintive
applications.
K anymore comments on on Gen
Luca's point?
I can't see the card so many
hands up and and I'm not
recording the order of them. So
who is next you remember?
Ohh.
That it? Yeah, it's me. If you
click on people, Chris, it has,
it has a listener of everybody
with their number next to them.
Alright Sir.
So you can see who's who.
So you can see the order. Sorry.
I'm gonna. I'm gonna. I'm gonna
mention a filthy subject now in
case working and it begins with
C and it's the the corruption
word.
And I at this may all be ironed
out now in, with, with, with
Atlas. But about 10 years ago I
did a project in the security
and corruption unit in the Home
Office where there was
significant or rife corruption
in amongst caseworkers, within
immigration, who the at the
time, the accepted.
Yeah. For another six months, it
was five grand. If you wanted
indefinite leave to remain, it
was 10 grand and there were a
lot of caseworkers taking bribes
in order to put put people
through, therefore.
Well, so maybe have that the
back of our mind. So if we're
looking at cases on bulk in
order to train models, be
cognizant of the fact that some
of those.
Permission to kind of come into
the country may not necessarily
be based on on the right kind of
decision in more bribes anyway.
I don't know whether that's
still an issue anymore.
I guess I'd say extreme bias.
You you could actually do it. I
mean it's point you actually do
It's.
it the other way around, right
where you could do an order
review of cases. And then if the
you know if the if the digital
Yeah.
twin kind of says well, I
wouldn't have wanted this and it
does that five times in a row
for the same person they maybe
Yeah.
you take a look at that.
Yeah.
And rather than kind of the
other way around.
Yes, this would I wonder whether
it's it's once like a QA point,
isn't it? Whether you could
train it to look for suspicious
patterns in.
Authorization rather than
actually making the decision
itself, is just a pinpointing
ones for review.
Yeah.
We we did cat. We did capture a
person and they had a brand new
Jaguar. It was a Jaguar XJ at
the time, had a brand new Jaguar
XJ and the last three letters on
their Reg was SLY.
Wow.
You thought that deliberately
put that on there. Ohh well
But.
anyone.
Yeah.
Ohh.
Alan.
Is it Lee or is it me or don't?
I can't remember.
It will see you now it's leave
but gone.
Ohh what was it? OK I was. I was
gonna say like this. Like, this
is a wide really wide-ranging
subject. Like I don't know if
this is helping or making it
worse for you Chris. But I think
like we can offer expertise in a
number of areas but it's how do
Ohh.
we how do we sort of zone that
down does does the client want
Is effective.
like a primer or do we just
would it be helpful if we set
out here's the end to end
journey from start to leave and
here are some things we can talk
about in each area.
So.
I think.
But I'm not.
I think it would be better to do
the latter like you said, so
just go through the process and
just say where potentially there
could be more value for AI
compared to other areas.
I think that would be helpful.
Yeah, and do and do we know in
this room where other countries
are applying a I cause the home
off the Home Office will know
that sort of stuff, cause they
were talking to, like, countries
around the world about what was
what was going on.
Um.
And some of the adoption
challenges, OK.
So I think now is an interesting
time because the the previous
challenge was the data data was
all over the place.
Hmm.
But, but I think it's it's
trying to understand what
they're trying to do. They
trying to look for operational
efficiency. They're trying to
look for cost savings. They
trying to get more people into
the country. They trying to stop
fraud. Are they trying to stop,
you know, terrorism and all that
sort of stuff or is it all of
them?
I think it's all of them. So
it's just it was a generic
And.
request down from the Cabinet
Office saying how can you in the
Home Office use AI and they went
toward different departments on
this. So it's it's just
completely it's just the flavour
of the month as you can imagine
because obviously it's very
exciting at the moment. But it
was a wide-ranging request. So
that's why I think if you just
went through the end to end.
I said that would be a good way
of of of logging it down. I
think so. Today's been doing it
as it generally.
To have just put a an article in
in the chat that gives a few use
cases of foreign immigration,
what it's being used, including
work done in the US.
Excellent. Thank you, okay.
We'll just do lie and then Medi
and then we'll start to go
through the process. But I I did
a terrible explanation as to
what the end to end process was.
Is there anyone that would be a
good, good person to?
Yeah.
I mean, obviously you guys been
working there for God knows how
I'm talking about me.
Probably.
long. So Ian, would you be able
to do that or not?
Have.
I'm just trying to recall my
it's been what? Because it I
mean it does sit in in chunks,
isn't it as it apply, travel,
live exit. I can't remember the
full kind of big blocks.
Yep.
Others.
A kind of help.
And yeah, I mean we can kind of
I I have got a journey map
somewhere probably on the call
like you give me two minutes. I
see if I can find it.
Yeah, if you can do that, we
really helpful okay over to Lee.
Yep. So a couple different
things. I guess things are
occurring to me as we talked
them in the first one for me is
you know we always get this
question. What can I do for me?
What can machine learning do for
me etcetera? And is we have to
look take that question and kind
of throw it away to some extent
where your problems right, which
we've already started to cover
Yeah.
what the process is. But even if
you understand the process, what
is the problem? Where are your
current blockers, where the
issues that you're having
problems overcoming because
that's when you can look at it
to see what the solution is,
right? So it's the business
problem where you can apply
technology.
So we may be AI, maybe something
else, but that's the best way to
do this rather than just spoke
to go different things. But some
of the things we kind of came up
with when we looked about these
last time was firstly ought to
determination this was more
about kind of people crossing
both small boats crossing
actually. But you could
determine where the influx of
travellers was gonna come from
based on the news and based on
what was happening, you know
something in Sudan now you're
going to get a huge number of
refugees from there. Are people
going to be trying to come into
the country from that and that
can help you schedule and people
in place specifically for that
region.
So you can help you determine
where you need to kind of
forward load and other things I
guess as well.
And when they were doing in
person interviews, there's
something verse of accent versus
language. So people would claim
to come from a particular
region, but be speaking in
different accent and you can
automatically determine that now
and that can help you find fraud
in those application forms,
sentiment analysis, even in real
time or of the letters. And the
written documentation that they
provide, do they support the
words that are being written
because the sentiment are
written with is often different
with what they're trying to say.
And again, that can help you
determine fraud.
And then reviews of the written
documentation for commonality.
So quite often there was this
process of professionals writing
the application forms and now
you.
Yeah.
Actually, helping genuine people
get across the across the border
was actually trying to stop
fraud, which is why the Bogra
theme. But there's lots of those
types of little use cases that
can be done. And at the time we
were thinking about kind of
having to develop some of these
things that have been done in
proof of concept. Now I think
they would be relatively easy to
put together.
Through kind of native, it's
through stock products.
That's really helpful, Lee.
Thank you very much. And medi.
So I think it largely a I and I
think this has been alluded to
by a few people on this call a I
couldn't help of course
anywhere. But there is also the
the situation that we need to
consider both the ethics and the
impact of the work that's done
not only that about the quality
of the inputs which will then
impact things such as bias and
also quality of outputs because
**** in **** out ultimately,
which we need to make sure isn't
going to happen in places such
as the Home Office where it's so
important.
I think also when we get that
stage that the process is stage,
we want to decide how much
impact you'd have with a I. So a
point of intervention, it
probably would be minimal for
the Home Office in terms of the
return on the investment for
building such a complex
borderline infallibles it
solution that has to be versus
to build a generative AI
solution that manages to churn
out all of their documentation
in seconds rather than hours.
And then that gives you a cost
improvement, which then helps to
justify the cost of these
things. It also improves the
adoption quality of it because
it means that you're not taking
out some huge risky project and
product which they're paying
through the nose for rather than
actually just building something
that is an efficiency gain. And
then the more of those you get,
then you've got soft adoption of
AI and then they become more
comfortable with it and you're
able to then do the bigger, more
complex programmes. It's also
deciding on the type of
technologies they'd want to use.
And on top of that, it need we
on this call need to be aware of
the impact of our
recommendations as well for
something so potentially risky
for us as well.
Um, I decided to in the in the
message we don't want to become
the consultancy that then is on
the front page of the Daily Mail
for.
Racial profiling by an app so.
That's really important that we
need to consider how we do
things like that.
And something we're doing in the
AI capability is considering the
ethics of the work that we do in
AI as well. So we need to be
Perhaps you are aware of IBM
stopped all work on facial
categorically.
recognition, for instance to to
stop at at route any bias so.
And we know that officers that
would be training these models
whilst they have gone through
bias training, there is still an
inherent bias that happens. And
so if we do that via a bot.
It could happen. Yeah. Noted.
OK. So, I mean, at this stage,
we're just gonna.
The idea was just come up with a
a short sublist on, maybe even
just e-mail, so nothing quickly
formed as the these are sort of
areas that we we think would be
interesting to look in AI and
potential benefits but but
obviously if they were gonna
implement any of this they need
to do it properly with a proper
assessment and understand the
risks around it.
I'm.
But yeah, point taken. Okay.
Ian, have you managed to find
the the, the, The Amazing
graphic?
I have.
And we yeah, hey.
So it was from.
Ohh man that's that brings back
memories.
I don't know, it's a graph. I
don't know. It's the latest
version, but it will give us an
anchor to form. Yeah, not
certainly have a discussion.
The probably let this is quite a
few years old, but the
principal's surely cannot have
changed.
That.
So.
I mean it's fairly
self-explanatory, said learn is
just people considering about
what? Why what they need to do
to come to the UK, apply with
the various types of visas.
Um.
Working travel.
Arrive.
Oops.
Yeah, at least stay might be
changing circumstances whilst
they're here. Leave. And then
the the the guest. There's
there's a caveat. Anytime
throughout that process of
stuff. So does that more.
I guess we can annotate the the
opportunities against that
J.
model.
Yeah.
Sorry buddy, was given folks
some context as to what some of
them mean and you might need to
help me out and Ned with my
memory of this stuff. I think
this is probably one of the
Ohh.
diagrams that I contributed to
back in the day that they're
But you said it.
probably 2 routes of migration
in the Home Office. There's like
regular migration and then
there's irregular migration,
Ohh.
which is asylum effectively, and
the asylum stuff is not not
shown here cause that's sort of
unpredictable. The UK is what
Yeah, yeah.
they're trying to do is follow a
model similar to the US with
lighters and permission to
travel. So.
Effectively what we're trying to
do is stop people that don't
Ohh.
have the right to travel or come
to this country. For me, even
boarding a plane and in time
boat or train so they won't be
able to actually physically
travel here, which is what the
universal permission to travel
work is. That's ongoing. So
that's that's the like policy
goal.
And the learning phase is all
about what what type of visa do
I need? I'm coming to study,
work, visit and those
regulations are constantly
shifting. The apply phase is the
online application journey,
which is increasingly more
digital now. So the EU
settlement scheme was a first
example of where we're using
people sort of biometric
passports and pushing out what
would have been biometric
capture out to the user. So
normally when you apply for
biometric.
Is you have to go to a visa
enrollment centre. We're trying
to do is push it so that you can
do it all from your mobile
device. So if you've got a
biometric passport, you could
use NFC to like scan your
passport. You capture like a
facial images. So anyone that
signed up for a digital bank
account will know, like the
liveness tests. So that's
basically the application models
of the future. So trying to stop
people going to these
applications centres.
And then the the travel phase is
is, as I said, you turn up to
the airport where you've got,
you know, book is about making
sure you've all permissions.
Then you book your travel and
then that's checked before you
depart when you arrive.
And the journey is very much as
think Ian articulated or Chris
you articulated is we just kind
of walk through the border, say
you kind of just walk, walk
through the gates and they
automatically open cause they
know who you are. But actually
like knowing who is on the
flights and what intelligence we
have about them and what threats
they have. So when we worked on
the borders case, Chris, like,
there's still gathering
information about people that
have booked a flight but not
travelled, those that have
actually turned up to the gate.
You're not got on the plane
versus he's actually on the
plane. So there are multiple
drops of information that all
get pushed to the Home Office as
part of that journey and they
run all their watch list
cheques. So in advance, which
they'll stop people boarding a
plane. But some of it, we've
done more people are travelling
and there will also be some
people that we may want to let
into the country because we then
arrest them when they get when
they get here. But knowing that
they're coming is a huge amount
of intelligence and there's a
huge amount of watch listing
that goes on in the back.
And that's, you know, obviously
sort of data intensive and
highly sort of analytical, I
don't know to what extent we're
looking at a I tools in that
space already certainly for
freight and cargo. There's the
Cerberus platform, which is what
we use for proactive targeting
and that's kind of in the space
that Nigel and.
Totally clear operating in in
DSA and then when people are
here and which is sort of the
stay part, that's very much
about checking that they've got
in the right entitlements to do
things. So the status contract
that we've just won tells you
whether you've got the right to
work the right to claim
benefits. And normally when
you're in that phase, people
then tend to potentially abscond
or disappear if they want to
kind of claim asylum. So that's
where they've got into the
country or maybe a visit.
These are and then they just
disappear and never.
Never return the change bit is
about updating your permission.
So say you've come here as a
student and you want to now stay
for a. You've graduated and you
now want to work here. Your
circumstances have changed and
you need to kind of get a
permanent visa and then the
leave stage is. Obviously we've
known that you've arrived. We're
now gonna count the fact that
you've left. So counting in and
counting out the numbers should
proudly equal the same. And then
there's a whole bunch of stuff
that you can do at any point in
that.
That journey process, such as
update your details so there's
quite a lot of like data
intensive operations that run
throughout all of that. And and
I think they've we've really
tried to minimise the amount of.
Human interaction and touch
points, so a lot of the
caseworking and decisioning that
sort of happens in the
background is is largely kind of
automated. And what we've done
for the caseworkers is give them
everything they need to make a
straight forward decision.
And.
But I still think there are
areas for improvement and
enhancement.
In in that process basically.
Sweet.
Three, start on the left, then
on the learn. So do you think
there's anything there where
there's a currently a problem?
And.
So I'm not sure how
sophisticated, so if I if I
literally what I've been doing
this, I've been trying to work
out whether I can send Ella D
from my team to Cyprus for some
MD work and it's taking about 5
minutes to wait through the
gov.uk guidance.
Whereas if I could just type a
natural language question and
go.
Can can can can I send the other
day to Cyprus for a meeting for
for two days?
And it would be nice to get like
a authority, you know, an answer
back on that.
So.
It's exactly the same when
people try to apply to come to
the UK, but unless you're an
immigration expert, sometimes I
language is a little bit
impenetrable.
You know, I I I'm going
somewhere to do something. Now
tell me if that's.
Permissible or what I need to
have in place for that?
Lee.
So.
But it's helped.
Yeah. So I think these things
are good. Idea is just one of
the things that it's just come
back to my memory when we we
talked about similar things
previously.
Um, a skewed the active kind of
said to us, giving too much
information up front.
Helps people work around the
system.
So it's just kind of work.
Yeah, with keeping that in in
the back of your head, when we
look to provide information pre
application.
Yeah, well, this is about
finding out what they need to
apply for.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm sorry. You
say it's not necessarily
Yeah.
directly related. It's just come
in the back of my head. That's
Yeah.
what we were told.
Yep.
Are there people that that are
there like agents that people go
to that help them do this
application and give them advice
on this cause? Are you?
Basically you could replace
Yeah, and immigration advisors.
Yeah.
them. Yeah. Immigration. So
therefore you could in theory
replace them with a.
But why? What I guess what value
is that to Home Office? I mean
that that they almost.
Yeah.
Situation. I mean that's a nice
to have, I guess what's the
motivation for some of us to do
that?
Well.
Yeah. What? What? What? The Home
Office really wants is the kind
I.
of the tier Tier 2 and Tier 4
visa holders to come. They're
the people that are gonna
targeted that drive kind of
Ohh.
prosperity and and investment
into the UK.
So.
What's a facilitating at making
it easier for them to apply and
That's.
and cheaper?
Yeah, I mean I I I think I mean,
I think it's it's not.
It's not like they're biggest
problem area at the moment, but
I guess I'm just using it as a
as a point more generally about
immigration guidance that is
published on gov.uk can be a
little bit.
Confusing.
Say.
Um.
Yeah.
You're not. It strikes me that
it's quite hard to come up with
a solution without knowing what
the pain point is, right? If you
Yeah. So.
Ohh.
mapped all of the pain points
against this value chain and
against each paint point, say
what I call the moment of value
is, right? So if the paint point
was eliminated, what value will
be delivered, right? Either time
saved or efficiency?
Productivity cost, whatever the
moment of value is, then you
could actually go through each
of the pain point and say, hey,
you know what, this could be
solved with AI or not here. Or
your Group A group, some paint.
Points together cause you can
see the whole value chain end to
end and you could say this could
be solved with. Yeah you know.
Yeah.
And that will give us, uh, you
know, one to one correlation
between the solution where
proposing and a pain point and a
moment of value. Right. And if
you group all the moments of
value, then you have an overall
figure of the, you know, value
that will be delivered by
incorporating AI, which could be
quite good headline executive
message.
Started. Don't think we
necessarily have that pain point
Ohh.
of view, do we at the moment
would be nice to have that the
Ohh my.
start that call, but I don't
think we do.
I'm not sure there is that pain
point view yet.
I think I think, yeah. I mean I
think it exists like you, you
Where is the.
need to speak to like if Simon
bonder on the call and you said,
Simon, where where are the
biggest problems in the end to
end process at the moment it
list off a couple of things I
don't imagine.
Yeah.
And and and and. Do you think
that that's more like coming
from an IT perspective? I mean
those thinking some more, more
more thinking from a business
perspective, but yeah, exactly.
Business, OK.
So I I think yeah that that
there needs to be like a a
version of what what do you once
showing now needs to be passed
through them and say please can
we spend you know two hours
identifying these pain points
and that we can get back with a
with a more reasoned view
because the examples of
applications.
Endless like if you look just a
quick search, you see every
counter has been experimenting.
I think the EU spent almost half
a billion euros in a I
application and borders, so it's
not as much what can AI.
Do for you is more again like
the good consultants. What's
your problem? What is the
problem that you're trying to
solve?
And then what can potentially I,
amongst other things, to do to
help and support and create
value?
Yeah.
Okay. Well I'm. I can. I can
pull together some of the
I mean.
seniors in, in the Home Office
to do that, to get their view on
it and and and use that as a
feed with, you know, with some
input from us. So I'm happy to
organise that.
Miss winning tonight and I cat
Callum's not on the cool, is he?
In.
No.
I.
In almost all aspects of Home
Office work.
Uh, whether it's front end pre
application during caseworking
process or even post
application, every single issue
is data related.
And it's all because of missing
attributes or how different
countries can enter their
application at the point of
entry and then how Home Office
handles that piece of data as it
flows through zillion different
systems. So the biggest the
biggest impact we could make is
automate the data correction
order identification of invalid
data.
And potentially fixing it every
single programme, every single
project is currently running
zillions of manual workarounds
and scripts. There is like
little gremlins everywhere
around the system to help make
data flows work.
For example, we just thought in
status project and they have a
swimlane called optimization.
All that Slimane is doing is
they're looking at data and
fixing attributes.
Uh.
So can I think one of the
biggest things we could do is
how can we automate this? Could
this be a massive a I exercise
now? This isn't simple because
these attributes will have to be
programmed and you know how many
countries in the world. That's
how many application processes
Home Office has and then
whatever you country they have
about 15 different policy for
every policy there is a
different application.
Yeah.
Ohh.
Well, I mean that that that's
right cause I mean the key the
key to making all of the same
office stuff work has always
been validating that the person
that you're dealing with is the,
you know, is actually the
person. So the identity of
someone and then their status
right, with those two things
like locked together, you can do
like a huge amount of stuff to
take friction out of the
process.
And but but it says Ned said
there's like a lot of complexity
in getting to those two points
like someone's status is is held
across a number of systems and
is complicated by policy. And
when policy is changed over the
time, you know, moving between a
year and not EU and and other
stuff in the history. So when
you've got those sort fragmented
records like that's what a lot
of the caseworking process is,
is confirming someone's
identity.
And then assigning that person's
identity a status, which means
like you're here as a visitor
and you have to leave within 180
days.
For 90 days.
So like which is handy cause
that's like one of those
projects is what we've just won
and we're trying to trying to
trying to address it, but that's
the that's the that's always
been the cornerstone of when we
drew the first diagram this back
in what 2014 it was always about
identity and status and we've
always used biometrics in the
past to.
To confirm that identity for non
you know for non non visa
nationals.
From these nationals? Yeah.
Safer by biometric visas and
residency permits. And all of
that sort of stuff.
And technologies change to allow
us to do that more and digitally
now, but we still need to
capture fingerprints and things
like that. But I think that's,
you know again technology will
catch up with that and make that
viable.
But it is coming to Nan's point
though is is can you use? Can
you use AI in anyway to validate
data or to spot things that are
wrong earlier in the process so
that you don't have to have to
correct it or what you work out
what's going on or have an idea
Yes.
what it could be.
Yeah, we did it. We did a data
cleanup project. Alec Clark,
I.
Alex Clarke led. Didn't he? Like
there's loads of things that
like there's the basic stuff
that we identified. I'd know
dates like.
Dates and errors, but yeah, I
think there's.
That there's a work work
underway on that.
But.
But it's more of the pedestrian
type.
Clean up activities.
Sorry.
But I think, Ned, you were
talking about kind of helping
fill in the blanks.
Too much. I mean, if you if you
think like Deloitte fills the
front end application forms for
every case, where can system
legacy and and new?
So if they launch an application
form that doesn't require a date
of birth, the system will allow
that.
And then when the application
gets to case working, nobody has
a clue what to do.
It's a piece of missing data.
How do you collect these things?
Ohh if somebody misspells Vienna
there is about in every European
language it's a different name
for that city.
Uh.
The.
So you're saying have more of
the, you know, did you mean this
type thing coming up with this?
Well, it it could be that it in
many cases it could be automatic
Yeah, I I guess.
correction because you can match
the IP match the submission
match or all kinds of stuff. I
mean we we create so many
scripts like we have a L3 team
that team pretty much writes for
example on Friday mastic deleted
the table by mistake and caused
over 20,000 applications to go
able.
And they couldn't fix it. So
they they called us and leave
her to all weekend fixing their
their Pradesh.
And but that was a data fix, not
a simple it's it's. It's the
Hold on.
kind of stuff that in theory, a
I could automatically repair if
something like this happens. I
mean, this was human caused
terror.
By support teams.
A.
But we write scripts like this
all the time.
So AI could be told to do that
without having to be asked.
I mean, I guess what would be
interesting to hear is like
where where people are using
kind of a I.
Type techniques in managing and
cleaning and maintaining large
It's quality.
volumes of data and data
quality.
Because that's that's always
been the number one problem the
Home Office has had.
Like you can't. You can't act on
some of the decisions until you
Yeah.
know you've got solid data.
True. And if you think they're
challenges, they have a main
database called CSDP, that's the
master and then that is
replicated for status. There's a
database that then stores
status, which is kind of a
subset of that data in some
additional attributes. And then
for internal MI, they have the
same database applicated again
with some additional attributes.
So we have the same data set in
three different versions,
potentially more versions with
each version having potentially
misaligned attributes.
That's a big data.
Problem.
Do you know if they have a tool
like elation for data governance
and data visibility and to see
duplicate records?
Yeah, I'm here. I'm sure they
have governance for data longer
than any book leave ever read.
No, no. Two or two. I'd like an
AI based 2 called elation. Yeah,
Ohh.
something like that. Which
allows you to.
No, I.
I don't think they've got any
tools that sort of sit on top of
the the platform.
You could explain more about it,
Alan.
80.
Yeah. I'm gonna put a link into
the chat. Yeah, that will. So
basically you put a tool like
elation and what it does it
immediately puts out a spider
web and then it it, it
identifies all of your data
sources, identifies duplicates,
identifies bad data, identifies
where prompts might occur, and
then gives you the kind of
capability to go fix it. Yeah.
Um, I'll put a link here. You
know that usually is like the
I mean.
first step of, you know, getting
grips with your data, right?
Don't forget this database is
huge. It's possibly the one of
the largest data WS databases
that exists on Earth.
In terms of volumes, we did not.
No, no, it's not that. No, no,
it's it's it's only a few
Hmm.
billion billion records, but
it's not, it's not massive.
The the the issue is always been
fragmentation, so the data used
You know.
to exist in multiple systems, so
you had a separate system that
looked for in country
applications a separate system
that looks for overseas
applications. A separate system
that looked for student
applications and then there were
all pulled into one application
through about five years of
Yeah.
legacy running and
decommissioning and then the new
systems have been built on top
of that where as they're just
saying.
I delete state, change some of
the attributes that are
mandatory and non mandatory
cause it's GD S policy to the
user friendly and allow them to
type in whatever they want into
their application and make the
process easy for the person
applying. Not so easy for the
caseworkers.
And.
So.
Half of Home Office projects, by
the way. If you think dot, if
you think status half of those
projects are purely mappings
between all the new.
That's what I've just learned on
status similar to dot. It's all
about mappings. What does a mean
in new system it's actually see.
Ohh.
Yeah.
A.
So so I think I think there is
one thing that we should float,
Chris, and it's probably it's a
shame, nice and generally carry
on on on the call, but we should
float this with with the the DS
Yep.
A-Team and our and if Dan in if
you can mention it to Dan cause
we still can talk to Mike
Siggins.
Yeah.
So we should mention cause I
know we've they've experimented
with the tools like this in the
past.
But I don't. I don't think that
the quality of them's
necessarily been there cause the
the.
The way the data is stored is
not straight forward.
So you need to understand the
the, the the business model and
data model.
You know, you could convince
elation to do a free pilot right
for proof of concept or somebody
like elation, right? I mean,
there are two or three of these
kind of tools, but that gives
Yeah.
you a picture of a map. Yeah, a
heat map. And then quite
quickly, you know, gets people
focused on where the key issues
are. Yeah, I've used.
Well, there's a direct is it say
there's it more direct link to
your previous point out and
about, you know pain points and
moments of value because the
amount of time caseworkers spend
chasing stuff around because of
poor quality data or fixing poor
quality data that they could
probably put a number on that.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I I know Homeland Security
users, US Homeland Security
users solution now.
OK, so probably good enough
reference.
And I and I think like they
gonna expect. Cause I think
there's.
More probably, more
opportunities in the irregular
migration. So the asylum world
and there is in the standard
world.
Yeah.
Just because it's if the Home
Office can predict patterns of
irregular migration, it can be
better at dealing with them to
Yeah.
like these previous point. And
you know the rise in small boat
crossings is a result of, you
know, political and social
factors.
Um.
And.
You know, when you look at, I
think, I mean one of the things
that Luca posted like using kind
of imagery to spot where like
boats are likely to cross and
all of that sort of stuff to to
kind of target the resources
that the government has got
where it makes sense. A lot of
it is still kind of judgement
and human intelligence at the
moment, I would say.
Yeah.
Um yet it costs the asylum
process is what costs the Home
Office the most. Keeping people
in asylum that end to end
process.
You know, 111 of the.
So.
Things I did for Pearson, right?
The Footsie 100 company where
they had allsorts of issues,
right. Double definition of
books. Yeah. And double
definition of customers is it's
very hard to launch a project to
clean up data because it's an
ongoing thing. There's lack of
discipline. It occurs all the
Yep.
time was to create like a
perpetual studio. Right. So the
studio sits in the middle and
it's only job is to make the
data efficient. So what happens
is it constantly works in use
cases, tackling the easy ones
first, then getting more and
more difficult and then getting
more and more difficult.
And then the squats in the
studio tackle different aspects
of, you know, data quality, data
governance and data assurance.
And therefore you have a focal
point. And then the studio is
tasked with making sure that you
know every Sprint two weekly
sprints. It's delivering some
form of value back. Yeah. And
that gives them the what I call
permanent execution muscle to
fix the data after six months,
nine months, 12 months. You had
a much better state than
launching a project to say, hey,
I'm gonna just fix the data now.
Yeah, yeah. And and I think that
they have got.
Haven't called it a studio, but
they've had teams in their
charge with data quality, data
governance and everything. But
the problem still persists
because I I think like you, you
Yeah.
want to automate this. The
resolution of that problem and
not not put humans in the
picture cause they're just lazy
and prone to, you know,
ministerial direction and
careers and all that sort of
stuff, right?
Yeah, that.
Bad robots. You've got a lot of
bad robots in there.
Yeah.
So I think there's, I think
there's something there, but I
mean, I guess Chris would be
worth knowing whether they they
would consider like the
irregular migration as part of
Yeah.
the FB stuff just because I know
through the ACE contract they've
they've gone out to market to
get someone to facilitate a
hackathon which we've responded
with Callum earlier on to go and
Yeah.
where you've got the head of UK
viewer that's looking for kind
of aiml type solutions to help
with the asylum.
Yeah.
So hopefully we'll push it and
open door on that one and an A
WS are keen to help us in that
space too.
Um.
I mean.
But but I don't know whether
it's worth just if you've got
someone available for work, we
could just get him to do a
little bit of a troll against
this journey and go what's
happening in the rest of the
world and see if that triggers
any thoughts.
Don't know whether I'm Alan nor
Norah. That's something that you
might be interested in doing
from a development perspective.
I can see you nothing Alan say.
Yeah. OK. So I think if you
Yes.
could maybe spend a few days
just sort of trolling, trolling
and seeing what's out there and
also maybe speak to our
knowledge processing teams, our
PPC team, they might be able to
do a bit of research for you as
well.
Cheers Alan.
Thank you.
And then I think that that
release get the juices flowing
for you, Chris Rayner with the
client.
Yeah.
I mean, it's some very, very
interesting topics here and it's
interesting to know about the
tools like elation out there,
Lee, the final word then.
Yeah. So I should say that, you
know, you could do worse than
introducing them to Microsoft
copilot as well. And again,
we've got funding to do a proof
of concept from Microsoft with
that, you know, that introducing
essentially a large language
modelling into Microsoft Office
suite and assuming they're using
Microsoft Office, and that could
help them substantially.
Hmm.
And I'm just, you know, very
easy and quick use cases. It's
backed by Microsoft, and it can
be trained to do exactly what
they want without any kind of
custom building of capability.
Yeah. So if you take that on top
of all of the immigration laws,
because the immigration laws are
like in a book about that thick,
you could could use it to help
drive some, you know.
Ohh, people could ask for advice
so.
Yeah, very easy and quick to do.
OK, good idea, Sir. Guys. OK,
I'll let let me take that away.
Thank you very much. Your time.
I appreciate it's a big topic
and maybe you could have
organised a bit better, but I
get the key points here. So what
I'll do is I'll I'll summarise
the transcript as best I can.
And and put in some suggestions
for next steps with the Home
Office.
Um, I things that we could do or
or provide input to, but that
was very, very useful and I will
circle back to this group,
particularly with my write up to
see if there's anything I'm
missing. But I do appreciate it.
We recorded it so hopefully
we've managed together
everything.
Um, is there anything else
before we close you like to
mention?
Talk. Talk to Rory Scott and see
if you can come to automatically
analyse the the the transcript
and summarise it for you.
That's what he's developing,
yeah.
Rory Scott.
It's pretty cool.
Remember to get it for us at the
start of Dallas.
Yeah.
Food or just take it in to
ChatGPT.
Yeah, yeah.
Ohh.
Yeah, that's sweet. It did. And
he put some light visualisations
Ohh.
on on it. So it basically said
the Dallas team were pretty flat
It.
when they delivered the
presentation and boring.
This what? What? What took away
from the analysis now no real
insight. I've never seen the
dials so flat on anything.
Sorry.
But it might might be better
here. I mean I guess I think
Chris would be a test of the FBS
programme, right? But have they
got on updated service map that
shows the end to end. So in
Ian's one is that's about three
or four years old.
That there is one, but obviously
it's on the other side. I can't,
I'm.
I can't use it here easily.
The phases we can pull out
though.
Pull out the head. Yeah, the
headlines.
Yeah.
Headings. Yeah, I could get
someone in my team to do that.
We have got access to it, I
think.
So I'll do that as well as
action.
And and then Callum might be
able to kind of anecdotally pull
out where some of the pain
points are, cause I guess it's
that they're on a journey to fix
some of these things anyway,
where could aim may be
accelerate in that space, but
also then got power, as always,
been finding those like hidden
Nuggets that will drive material
improvement like, you know, if
you fix your data quality, that
will allow you to do XYZ rather
than ohh, let's do facial
recognition at the border
because they're already.
On track to do that? Yeah. And
that none of that's gonna work
Looking to yeah.
unless you can identify the
person and identify their
status.
Which is all data related.
And.
Yeah, okay. Thank you very much,
everyone Rover time. Appreciate
Ohh.
it.
Thanks all.
Very interesting. Thank you.
Thanks.